Homestretch.
I wanna talk about two things, and
it'll probably be a ratio of
one to two-ish or three-ish.
The first thing I wanna talk about is,
Standalone components and
the standalone API.
Admittedly, when I first
started playing around with it,
I'm like, what's this about?
I don't feel like we've
actually solved problems,
that I think sometimes it's
like a kid who doesn't
want to eat their vegetables for
dinner, and
what they do is they just
kinda push it around.
And I think sometimes as engineers,
that's what we do, is we're just like,
I don't wanna deal with this and
let's push it onto the server.
Let's push it onto Q&A or whatever.
And with that said,
I think the standalone API,
which is moving Angular in the right
direction from the sense of it allows
us to do a lot more dynamic composition,
because we're shifting
the focus onto components and
routes, specifically on routes.
And the ability to inject providers
into the routes as you load them and
compose the context in
which a component is
being rendered at runtime is,
I think, very powerful.
And I think we're just
starting to see some of
the interesting things
that we can do with this.
So for me,
I'm warming up to the standalone API.
I believe that the advantage
of it is that it
allows us to do more things at runtime.
I think that what we
are seeing is a module was,
I think, a good mechanism for
creating kind of boundaries.
And so one of the things with,
even JavaScript or
TypeScript moving into
a kind of more of an OOP,
object-oriented programming,
kind of a paradigm.
That I was originally concerned
about it because I personally,
I think that stylistically I leaned
towards more functional programming.
And so I'm like, great,
we're turning JavaScript into Java,
which is funny, because Java,
they're trying to be dynamic and closure.
And it's kinda funny,
it's like we're going in these circles.
But the way that I was
able to resolve that
cognitive dissonance is that
objects represent reality,
we live in a world of objects.
And as an organizational mechanism,
objects and
modules are a great sense-making device.
And I think where we deviate
from reality is when we start
doing things like inheritance
because that just doesn't
happen in the real world
the way that happens in code.
And you just have to be
really careful about that.
And I realized that just
because you can do something
doesn't mean that you're going to, and so,
yes, I acknowledge that I can
do inheritance in JavaScript.
And I can write JavaScript like Java,
but I don't have to.
So I think as an organizational
mechanism it was fine.
The problem is that it
is by nature a static
stationary construct within the app,
and the standalone API just gives us some
more options at runtime, which I like.
And one of the things that I like as well,
and
I'll flesh this out,
is that you can write very,
very portable pipes, directives,
interceptors that you're
no longer having to go and
register those with the module.
And I think this is where people at
the disconnect was, is that I wanna put it
into this thing here, why do I gotta
go register it and come back down?
It sounded like you show up in a town and
you gotta drive across town
to check in with the magistrate,
it doesn't make sense.
So that was just a little
bit of a thought on that.
I think that anybody new to Angular
who's maybe hasn't done it for
a while and they're coming back or
they're just starting,
it's definitely a paradigm shift.
I also have it on good
authority that we haven't
fully seen everything that's possible.
And so I have the benefit of being able to
interface with the Angular core team and
the different ones.
And there's some really, really cool
stuff coming down the pipeline,
and they've done a good
job of looking forward and
really seeing where
the technological landscape is and
kind of what's on the horizon and
making good choices for that.
>> As far as standalone components, they
can be intermixed with regular components?
>> Yep, the interop is seamless,
that you can put static modules
into standalone components and
standalone components into static modules.
>> So maybe you created some kinda
utility component that was standalone,
just has a specific job or something.
You sent directives or
whatnot or pipes or something,
no longer do you have to go into the app
module and make a reference there?
>> Yep, in some cases,
well, the other thing is,
And we saw this with observable operators,
is that it's funny to me that most
of the time when we talk about RSJS,
there's a lot of people that are like,
ooh, that's tough.
But really, what I think
they're getting hung up on is,
are they talking about the observable
stream or the 323 operators that exist,
and it's not actually,
I think it's like 120 something.
And, [COUGH] when Angular first
started using observables,
you would just pull everything in,
you just import it.
And I think that created a lot
of problems, it was very heavy.
And I am a fan of if you're going to
use an operator or use something,
be explicit about it,
be intentional about it.
And so with the standalone API,
there are things that you have to
pull in to your component that before
just came in with a common module.
But the upside is you're able
to pull just that thing in and
not all the other things,
and so I would give it a,
I think it's something that's interesting.
I'm not over the moon in love with it,
not like observables, but
I do think there are some good reasons,
and
it doesn't offend me to the point I'm
like, I'm not using this, this is crazy.
It's pretty painless, and they've
done a pretty decent job of creating
some migration paths for that as well.
>> One tiny more question,
one more question.
Is there a default when you create a new
component of standalone or not standalone?
>> Standalone is now the default.
>> So don't you find that strange if,
I do anyway,
that standalone would kinda be a one-off,
why it would be the default, or
am I not thinking right mind?
>> Well, I think,
especially if it's a one-off,
you wouldn't want to
anchor it unnecessarily to
the rest of the application context.
So if I had a details component,
I wouldn't need to go and
register that up at the module,
I can just register it at the consuming.
>> Okay, yeah, yeah, I get it.
>> So it's a little bit more wiring up,
but it's for a reason, and
what ultimately it does is it allows for
a better signaling of intention.
And more importantly, that you're
not doing these, so for instance,
if I just imported all of RSJS,
you don't know what my intentions are.
I've just imported like 120 operators,
versus if I do from and
of, or whatever, you'd have a pretty
good idea of what I'm up to,
so a minimum, I think it's good signaling